SOURCE: https://github.com/minio/minio
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-25 (spike db-hny6)
---
GitHub - minio/minio: MinIO is a high-performance, S3 compatible object store, open sourced under GNU AGPLv3 license. · GitHub 

 Skip to content 

 Navigation Menu
 
 Sign in Appearance settings

 Platform AI CODE CREATION GitHub Copilot Write better code with AI 
 GitHub Copilot app Direct agents from issue to merge 
 MCP Registry Integrate external tools 

 DEVELOPER WORKFLOWS Actions Automate any workflow 
 Codespaces Instant dev environments 
 Issues Plan and track work 
 Code Review Manage code changes 
 Code Quality Enforce quality at merge 

 APPLICATION SECURITY GitHub Advanced Security Find and fix vulnerabilities 
 Code security Secure your code as you build 
 Secret protection Stop leaks before they start 

 EXPLORE Why GitHub 
 Documentation 
 Blog 
 Changelog 
 Marketplace 

 View all features 

 Solutions BY COMPANY SIZE Enterprises 
 Small and medium teams 
 Startups 
 Nonprofits 

 BY USE CASE App Modernization 
 DevSecOps 
 DevOps 
 CI/CD 
 View all use cases 

 BY INDUSTRY Healthcare 
 Financial services 
 Manufacturing 
 Government 
 View all industries 

 View all solutions 

 Resources EXPLORE BY TOPIC AI 
 Software Development 
 DevOps 
 Security 
 View all topics 

 EXPLORE BY TYPE Customer stories 
 Events & webinars 
 Ebooks & reports 
 Business insights 
 GitHub Skills 

 SUPPORT & SERVICES Documentation 
 Customer support 
 Community forum 
 Trust center 
 Partners 

 View all resources 

 Open Source COMMUNITY GitHub Sponsors Fund open source developers 

 PROGRAMS Security Lab 
 Maintainer Community 
 GitHub Stars 
 Archive Program 

 REPOSITORIES Topics 
 Trending 
 Collections 

 Enterprise ENTERPRISE SOLUTIONS Enterprise platform AI-powered developer platform 

 AVAILABLE ADD-ONS GitHub Advanced Security Enterprise-grade security features 
 Copilot for Business Enterprise-grade AI features 
 Premium Support Enterprise-grade 24/7 support 

 Pricing 
 Search / 

 Sign in 
 Sign up Appearance settings

 You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 
 You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 
 You switched accounts on another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 

 Dismiss alert 

 {{ message }}

 This repository was archived by the owner on Apr 25, 2026. It is now read-only.

 minio
 
 / 
 
 minio 

 Public archive 

 Notifications
 You must be signed in to change notification settings 

 Fork
 8k 

 Star
 61.4k 

 Code 

 Issues 
 44 

 Pull requests 
 36 

 Discussions 

 Actions 

 Security and quality 
 27 

 Insights 

 Additional navigation options 

 Code

 Issues

 Pull requests

 Discussions

 Actions

 Security and quality

 Insights

 master 

 Branches Tags 

 Go to file 

 Code Open more actions menu 

 Latest commit

 History
 12,565 Commits 
 12,565 Commits 

 Folders and files
 Name Name Last commit message 
 Last commit date 
 
 .github 

 .github 

 buildscripts 

 buildscripts 

 cmd 

 cmd 

 dockerscripts 

 dockerscripts 

 docs 

 docs 

 helm-releases 

 helm-releases 

 helm/ minio 

 helm/ minio 

 internal 

 internal 

 .dockerignore 

 .dockerignore 

 .gitignore 

 .gitignore 

 .golangci.yml 

 .golangci.yml 

 .mailmap 

 .mailmap 

 .typos.toml 

 .typos.toml 

 CNAME 

 CNAME 

 COMPLIANCE.md 

 COMPLIANCE.md 

 CONTRIBUTING.md 

 CONTRIBUTING.md 

 CREDITS 

 CREDITS 

 Dockerfile 

 Dockerfile 

 Dockerfile.cicd 

 Dockerfile.cicd 

 Dockerfile.hotfix 

 Dockerfile.hotfix 

 Dockerfile.release 

 Dockerfile.release 

 Dockerfile.release.old_cpu 

 Dockerfile.release.old_cpu 

 Dockerfile.scratch 

 Dockerfile.scratch 

 LICENSE 

 LICENSE 

 Makefile 

 Makefile 

 NOTICE 

 NOTICE 

 PULL_REQUESTS_ETIQUETTE.md 

 PULL_REQUESTS_ETIQUETTE.md 

 README.md 

 README.md 

 SECURITY.md 

 SECURITY.md 

 VULNERABILITY_REPORT.md 

 VULNERABILITY_REPORT.md 

 _config.yml 

 _config.yml 

 code_of_conduct.md 

 code_of_conduct.md 

 docker-buildx.sh 

 docker-buildx.sh 

 go.mod 

 go.mod 

 go.sum 

 go.sum 

 helm-reindex.sh 

 helm-reindex.sh 

 index.yaml 

 index.yaml 

 main.go 

 main.go 

 update-credits.sh 

 update-credits.sh 

 View all files 

 Repository files navigation
 
 README 
 Code of conduct 
 Contributing 
 AGPL-3.0 license 
 Security 
 
 More items 

 Note
 THIS REPOSITORY IS NO LONGER MAINTAINED. 

 Alternatives: 

 AIStor Free — Full-featured, standalone edition for community use (free license)

 AIStor Enterprise — Distributed edition with commercial support

 MinIO Quickstart Guide

 MinIO is a high-performance, S3-compatible object storage solution released under the GNU AGPL v3.0 license.
Designed for speed and scalability, it powers AI/ML, analytics, and data-intensive workloads with industry-leading performance.

 S3 API Compatible – Seamless integration with existing S3 tools

 Built for AI & Analytics – Optimized for large-scale data pipelines

 High Performance – Ideal for demanding storage workloads.

 This README provides instructions for building MinIO from source and deploying onto baremetal hardware.
Use the MinIO Documentation project to build and host a local copy of the documentation.

 MinIO is Open Source Software

 We designed MinIO as Open Source software for the Open Source software community. We encourage the community to remix, redesign, and reshare MinIO under the terms of the AGPLv3 license.

 All usage of MinIO in your application stack requires validation against AGPLv3 obligations, which include but are not limited to the release of modified code to the community from which you have benefited. Any commercial/proprietary usage of the AGPLv3 software, including repackaging or reselling services/features, is done at your own risk.

 The AGPLv3 provides no obligation by any party to support, maintain, or warranty the original or any modified work.
All support is provided on a best-effort basis through Github and our Slack channel, and any member of the community is welcome to contribute and assist others in their usage of the software.

 MinIO AIStor includes enterprise-grade support and licensing for workloads which require commercial or proprietary usage and production-level SLA/SLO-backed support. For more information, reach out for a quote .

 Source-Only Distribution

 Important: The MinIO community edition is now distributed as source code only. We will no longer provide pre-compiled binary releases for the community version.

 Installing Latest MinIO Community Edition

 To use MinIO community edition, you have two options:

 Install from source using go install github.com/minio/minio@latest (recommended)

 Build a Docker image from the provided Dockerfile

 See the sections below for detailed instructions on each method.

 Legacy Binary Releases

 Historical pre-compiled binary releases remain available for reference but are no longer maintained:

 GitHub Releases: https://github.com/minio/minio/releases 

 Direct downloads: https://dl.min.io/server/minio/release/ 

 These legacy binaries will not receive updates. We strongly recommend using source builds for access to the latest features, bug fixes, and security updates.

 Install from Source

 Use the following commands to compile and run a standalone MinIO server from source.
If you do not have a working Golang environment, please follow How to install Golang . Minimum version required is go1.24 

 go install github.com/minio/minio@latest 

 You can alternatively run go build and use the GOOS and GOARCH environment variables to control the OS and architecture target.
For example:

 env GOOS=linux GOARCH=arm64 go build

 Start MinIO by running minio server PATH where PATH is any empty folder on your local filesystem.

 The MinIO deployment starts using default root credentials minioadmin:minioadmin .
You can test the deployment using the MinIO Console, an embedded web-based object browser built into MinIO Server.
Point a web browser running on the host machine to http://127.0.0.1:9000 and log in with the root credentials.
You can use the Browser to create buckets, upload objects, and browse the contents of the MinIO server.

 You can also connect using any S3-compatible tool, such as the MinIO Client mc commandline tool:

 mc alias set local http://localhost:9000 minioadmin minioadmin
mc admin info local 

 See Test using MinIO Client mc for more information on using the mc commandline tool.
For application developers, see https://docs.min.io/enterprise/aistor-object-store/developers/sdk/ to view MinIO SDKs for supported languages.

 Note
 Production environments using compiled-from-source MinIO binaries do so at their own risk.
The AGPLv3 license provides no warranties nor liabilities for any such usage.

 Build Docker Image

 You can use the docker build . command to build a Docker image on your local host machine.
You must first build MinIO and ensure the minio binary exists in the project root.

 The following command builds the Docker image using the default Dockerfile in the root project directory with the repository and image tag myminio:minio 

 docker build -t myminio:minio . 

 Use docker image ls to confirm the image exists in your local repository.
You can run the server using standard Docker invocation:

 docker run -p 9000:9000 -p 9001:9001 myminio:minio server /tmp/minio --console-address :9001 

 Complete documentation for building Docker containers, managing custom images, or loading images into orchestration platforms is out of scope for this documentation.
You can modify the Dockerfile and dockerscripts/docker-entrypoint.sh as-needed to reflect your specific image requirements.

 See the MinIO Container documentation for more guidance on running MinIO within a Container image.

 Install using Helm Charts

 There are two paths for installing MinIO onto Kubernetes infrastructure:

 Use the MinIO Operator 

 Use the community-maintained Helm charts 

 See the MinIO Documentation for guidance on deploying using the Operator.
The Community Helm chart has instructions in the folder-level README.

 Test MinIO Connectivity

 Test using MinIO Console

 MinIO Server comes with an embedded web based object browser.
Point your web browser to http://127.0.0.1:9000 to ensure your server has started successfully.

 Note
 MinIO runs console on random port by default, if you wish to choose a specific port use --console-address to pick a specific interface and port.

 Test using MinIO Client mc 

 mc provides a modern alternative to UNIX commands like ls, cat, cp, mirror, diff etc. It supports filesystems and Amazon S3 compatible cloud storage services.

 The following commands set a local alias, validate the server information, create a bucket, copy data to that bucket, and list the contents of the bucket.

 mc alias set local http://localhost:9000 minioadmin minioadmin
mc admin info
mc mb data
mc cp ~ /Downloads/mydata data/
mc ls data/ 

 Follow the MinIO Client Quickstart Guide for further instructions.

 Explore Further

 The MinIO documentation website 

 MinIO Erasure Code Overview 

 Use mc with MinIO Server 

 Use minio-go SDK with MinIO Server 

 Contribute to MinIO Project

 Please follow MinIO Contributor's Guide for guidance on making new contributions to the repository.

 License

 MinIO source is licensed under the GNU AGPLv3 .

 MinIO documentation is licensed under CC BY 4.0 .

 License Compliance 

 About 
 MinIO is a high-performance, S3 compatible object store, open sourced under GNU AGPLv3 license.
 Topics 
 amazon-s3 cloud cloudnative cloudstorage go k8s kubernetes multi-cloud multi-cloud-kubernetes objectstorage s3 storage 
 Resources 
 Readme 
 AGPL-3.0 license 
 Code of conduct 
 Code of conduct 
 Contributing 
 Contributing 
 Security policy 
 Security policy 
 Activity 
 Custom properties 
 Stars 
 61.4k stars 
 Watchers 
 653 watching 
 Forks 
 8.0k forks 
 Report repository 

 Releases 

 Used by 

 Contributors 

 Languages 

 Footer

 © 2026 GitHub, Inc.

 Footer navigation

 Terms 

 Privacy 

 Security 

 Status 

 Community 

 Docs 

 Contact 

 Manage cookies

 Do not share my personal information

 You can’t perform that action at this time.
