SOURCE: https://github.com/pgsty/silo
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-25 (spike db-hny6)
---
GitHub - pgsty/silo: S3-Compatible Object Storage. A MinIO fork maintained by PGSTY · GitHub 

 Skip to content 

 Navigation Menu
 
 Sign in Appearance settings

 Platform AI CODE CREATION GitHub Copilot Write better code with AI 
 GitHub Copilot app Direct agents from issue to merge 
 MCP Registry Integrate external tools 

 DEVELOPER WORKFLOWS Actions Automate any workflow 
 Codespaces Instant dev environments 
 Issues Plan and track work 
 Code Review Manage code changes 
 Code Quality Enforce quality at merge 

 APPLICATION SECURITY GitHub Advanced Security Find and fix vulnerabilities 
 Code security Secure your code as you build 
 Secret protection Stop leaks before they start 

 EXPLORE Why GitHub 
 Documentation 
 Blog 
 Changelog 
 Marketplace 

 View all features 

 Solutions BY COMPANY SIZE Enterprises 
 Small and medium teams 
 Startups 
 Nonprofits 

 BY USE CASE App Modernization 
 DevSecOps 
 DevOps 
 CI/CD 
 View all use cases 

 BY INDUSTRY Healthcare 
 Financial services 
 Manufacturing 
 Government 
 View all industries 

 View all solutions 

 Resources EXPLORE BY TOPIC AI 
 Software Development 
 DevOps 
 Security 
 View all topics 

 EXPLORE BY TYPE Customer stories 
 Events & webinars 
 Ebooks & reports 
 Business insights 
 GitHub Skills 

 SUPPORT & SERVICES Documentation 
 Customer support 
 Community forum 
 Trust center 
 Partners 

 View all resources 

 Open Source COMMUNITY GitHub Sponsors Fund open source developers 

 PROGRAMS Security Lab 
 Maintainer Community 
 GitHub Stars 
 Archive Program 

 REPOSITORIES Topics 
 Trending 
 Collections 

 Enterprise ENTERPRISE SOLUTIONS Enterprise platform AI-powered developer platform 

 AVAILABLE ADD-ONS GitHub Advanced Security Enterprise-grade security features 
 Copilot for Business Enterprise-grade AI features 
 Premium Support Enterprise-grade 24/7 support 

 Pricing 
 Search / 

 Sign in 
 Sign up Appearance settings

 You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 
 You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 
 You switched accounts on another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 

 Dismiss alert 

 {{ message }}

 pgsty
 
 / 
 
 silo 

 Public 

 forked from minio/minio 

 Notifications
 You must be signed in to change notification settings 

 Fork
 205 

 Star
 3.5k 

 Code 

 Issues 
 15 

 Pull requests 
 2 

 Discussions 

 Actions 

 Projects 

 Security and quality 
 0 

 Insights 

 Additional navigation options 

 Code

 Issues

 Pull requests

 Discussions

 Actions

 Projects

 Security and quality

 Insights

 main 

 Branches Tags 

 Go to file 

 Code Open more actions menu 

 Latest commit

 History
 13,023 Commits 
 13,023 Commits 

 Folders and files
 Name Name Last commit message 
 Last commit date 
 
 .github 

 .github 

 buildscripts 

 buildscripts 

 cmd 

 cmd 

 dockerscripts 

 dockerscripts 

 docs 

 docs 

 helm/ silo 

 helm/ silo 

 internal 

 internal 

 .dockerignore 

 .dockerignore 

 .gitignore 

 .gitignore 

 .golangci.yml 

 .golangci.yml 

 .mailmap 

 .mailmap 

 .typos.toml 

 .typos.toml 

 AGENTS.md 

 AGENTS.md 

 CHANGELOG.md 

 CHANGELOG.md 

 CLAUDE.md 

 CLAUDE.md 

 COMPLIANCE.md 

 COMPLIANCE.md 

 CONTRIBUTING.md 

 CONTRIBUTING.md 

 CONTRIBUTORS.md 

 CONTRIBUTORS.md 

 CREDITS 

 CREDITS 

 Dockerfile.distroless 

 Dockerfile.distroless 

 Dockerfile.goreleaser 

 Dockerfile.goreleaser 

 LICENSE 

 LICENSE 

 Makefile 

 Makefile 

 NOTICE 

 NOTICE 

 PULL_REQUESTS_ETIQUETTE.md 

 PULL_REQUESTS_ETIQUETTE.md 

 README.md 

 README.md 

 README_ZH.md 

 README_ZH.md 

 SECURITY.md 

 SECURITY.md 

 VULNERABILITY_REPORT.md 

 VULNERABILITY_REPORT.md 

 code_of_conduct.md 

 code_of_conduct.md 

 go.mod 

 go.mod 

 go.sum 

 go.sum 

 main.go 

 main.go 

 silo.env 

 silo.env 

 silo.service 

 silo.service 

 silo.sysusers 

 silo.sysusers 

 update-credits.sh 

 update-credits.sh 

 View all files 

 Repository files navigation
 
 README 
 Code of conduct 
 Contributing 
 AGPL-3.0 license 
 Security 
 
 More items 

 S3-compatible object storage — a MinIO fork maintained by PGSTY 

 Website ·
 Documentation ·
 Download ·
 Release Notes ·
 Compatibility ·
 Manifesto ·
 Security ·
 中文 

 Important
 PGSTY Silo (hereinafter “Silo”) is an independent, community-maintained fork of the open-source MinIO server, published by Pigsty from pgsty/silo . It is not affiliated with, endorsed by, or sponsored by MinIO, Inc. “MinIO” is used only to identify the upstream project and compatibility lineage.

 Note
 Renamed from pgsty/minio to pgsty/silo , default branch master → main , on 2026-08-06. Artifacts under the original MinIO identity stay published on the archived minio branch and in releases up to RELEASE.2026-08-04T00-00-00Z .

 Current release and main branch

 The latest published Server is 20260903 .
As of 2026-09-16, the main branch has newer security, storage, Console and
shared-package changes that have not shipped in a Server release. See
 CHANGELOG.md and the component version matrix 
for the exact release/source boundary, including SN-2026-011 and password-policy migration.

 Overview

 PGSTY SILO keeps one maintained release line of the open-source MinIO server alive after upstream ended community distribution: builds, packages, multi-arch images, security fixes, and the full web console. Pigsty runs it in production as its PostgreSQL backup repository.

 It follows one rule — the product and its delivery surfaces are renamed; the protocol and your data are not. Everything else lives on silo.pgsty.com .

 Related: pgsty/mc client (shipped as mcli ) · pgsty/silo-console · pgsty/silo-pkg · pgsty/pigsty 

 Quick Start

 docker run -d --name silo -p 9000:9000 -p 9001:9001 \
 -e MINIO_ROOT_USER=minioadmin \
 -e MINIO_ROOT_PASSWORD=change-me-long-password \
 -v " $PWD /data:/data " \
 docker.io/pgsty/silo:latest server /data --console-address " :9001 " 

 Console on http://localhost:9001 , S3 API on http://localhost:9000 . The image bundles the client as mcli :

 docker exec silo mcli alias set local http://127.0.0.1:9000 minioadmin change-me-long-password
docker exec silo mcli mb local/demo && docker exec silo mcli ls local 

 Warning
 For production, pin a release, use unique credentials and TLS, monitor the service, keep independent backups, and test recovery. Start from the documentation .

 Install

 Method 
 Where 

 Container 
 pgsty/silo , multi-arch for linux/amd64 and linux/arm64 

 Binaries 
 GitHub Releases — Linux, macOS, Windows on amd64 and arm64 

 Packages 
 RPM, DEB, and APK, also via the Pigsty repository 

 Kubernetes 
 Helm chart, see Download & Install 

 Source 
 go build -o silo . && ./silo --version 

 Every release ships checksums, SPDX SBOMs, Sigstore-signed manifests, and GitHub build attestations. Installation methods and verification commands are documented at Download & Install ; migrating from upstream MinIO — taking over an existing minio.service and its /etc/default/minio , and keeping data ownership stable with a /etc/systemd/system/silo.service.d/10-legacy-user.conf drop-in — is covered by the migration guide and the binary & service notes .

 Compatibility

 Silo preserves S3 and storage-format compatibility, including existing MINIO_* variables, minio_* metrics, x-minio-* headers, /minio/* routes, and .minio.sys data. CI guards selected compatibility identifiers; release notes document intentional security and behavior changes. Silo-owned delivery surfaces use the silo executable, package, service, Helm chart, and container image; no minio server binary alias is installed.

 The supported release stack is pgsty/silo + pgsty/silo-console + pgsty/mc + pgsty/silo-pkg ; compatibility with unmodified upstream MinIO/MC is best effort. The Server, Console, and client retain their historical module paths where needed, while maintained code imports github.com/pgsty/silo-pkg/v3 directly. The SDK github.com/minio/minio-go/v7 is an explicit upstream dependency. See the current go.mod for versions and replacements.

 Every divergence from upstream is listed in the code-verified compatibility audit . Treat each release as a downstream upgrade: pin versions, read the release notes , and keep a rollback path.

 TLS and Go upgrades

 The following TLS repair is on main and is not included in Server 20260903.
With that repair, TLS key exchange follows Go's defaults across the S3 listener, node links,
replication, identity providers, etcd, and external HTTP services. If an endpoint
cannot accept ML-KEM, GODEBUG=tlsmlkem=0 disables the default hybrid exchanges
for the process; certificate verification remains enabled. This option does not
disable ML-DSA signatures or resolve every TLS reset. Prefer updating the
incompatible endpoint before removing the temporary setting.
If only the new SecP hybrids cause problems, GODEBUG=tlssecpmlkem=0 disables
those groups while retaining X25519MLKEM768.

 For builds targeting Go 1.27, setting either SSL_CERT_FILE or SSL_CERT_DIR 
on macOS replaces Keychain trust with on-disk roots and Go's verifier. Stale or
incomplete CA paths can break previously trusted connections; unset inherited
values to restore Keychain trust. Explicit certificates in the configured CAs 
directory remain additive to the selected root pool.
Go 1.27 binaries require macOS 13 or later. See the
 Go release notes and the
 Go 1.27 TLS and OIDC discovery guide .

 Documentation ownership

 User documentation is maintained at silo.pgsty.com ,
with source in pgsty/silo.pgsty.com .
The remaining docs/ tree contains inherited references, examples, and tooling
fixtures. Investigation logs, AI work records, and temporary reports are kept
outside this repository; reusable findings belong in the companion site.
See AGENTS.md for repository ownership and maintenance rules.

 Security & Contributing

 Report vulnerabilities privately as described in SECURITY.md ; every fix ships with a public advisory . Contributions are accepted inbound=outbound under AGPL-3.0-or-later with no CLA — only DCO sign-off ( git commit -s ) is required; see CONTRIBUTING.md .

 Contributors

 Every human issue or pull-request author is part of the SILO community, including open and unmerged work. Merged fixes, adopted proposals, and actionable reports receive priority, with first participation guiding the remaining order. Gold rings highlight reviewed significant contributions.

 View contribution notes and actual PR status .

 Star History

 Background

 Upstream wound down its community edition: the web console was cut back to a stub, prebuilt community binaries stopped, and the community repository was archived. Silo exists to keep those deployments running. The fork is a means, not an identity — if upstream restores its community edition, we will narrow our scope and offer the fixes back.

 The Manifesto is the project's public commitment in eleven articles, under one discipline: every article is either something already done with public evidence, or something explicitly refused. In short:

 Compatibility contract — the protocol and your data do not change, and every release documents its tested rollback target and path.

 The license cannot change — AGPLv3, no CLA, no copyright aggregation; nobody here, ourselves included, holds enough copyright to relicense on everyone else's behalf.

 The never list , append-only — no paywalling existing features, no registration wall on downloads, no telemetry (upstream's phone-home paths are removed outright), no CLA, no license change, no trademark enforcement against normal use.

 Security and release discipline — a public advisory for every fix, and a release every one to two months, at most a quarter apart. Judge both against the public record.

 Essays: MinIO Is Dead · Who Takes Over? · Long Live MinIO · Promise Kept 

 License & Trademark

 Silo is AGPL-3.0-or-later , derived from minio/minio with upstream copyright and third-party notices preserved in NOTICE and CREDITS . MinIO is a trademark of MinIO, Inc.; the name is used here only to identify the upstream project and compatibility lineage.

 Details: license · attribution · trademark 

 About 
 S3-Compatible Object Storage. A MinIO fork maintained by PGSTY
 silo.pgsty.com 
 Topics 
 minio object-storage pigsty s3 
 Resources 
 Readme 
 AGPL-3.0 license 
 Code of conduct 
 Code of conduct 
 Contributing 
 Contributing 
 Security policy 
 Security policy 
 Activity 
 Custom properties 
 Stars 
 3.5k stars 
 Watchers 
 31 watching 
 Forks 
 205 forks 
 Report repository 

 Releases 

 Packages 

 Contributors 

 Languages 

 Footer

 © 2026 GitHub, Inc.

 Footer navigation

 Terms 

 Privacy 

 Security 

 Status 

 Community 

 Docs 

 Contact 

 Manage cookies

 Do not share my personal information

 You can’t perform that action at this time.
