SOURCE: https://github.com/pgsty/mc
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-25 (spike db-hny6)
---
GitHub - pgsty/mc: Silo object storage client (mcli), a community-maintained fork of the MinIO Client · GitHub 

 Skip to content 

 Navigation Menu
 
 Sign in Appearance settings

 Platform AI CODE CREATION GitHub Copilot Write better code with AI 
 GitHub Copilot app Direct agents from issue to merge 
 MCP Registry Integrate external tools 

 DEVELOPER WORKFLOWS Actions Automate any workflow 
 Codespaces Instant dev environments 
 Issues Plan and track work 
 Code Review Manage code changes 
 Code Quality Enforce quality at merge 

 APPLICATION SECURITY GitHub Advanced Security Find and fix vulnerabilities 
 Code security Secure your code as you build 
 Secret protection Stop leaks before they start 

 EXPLORE Why GitHub 
 Documentation 
 Blog 
 Changelog 
 Marketplace 

 View all features 

 Solutions BY COMPANY SIZE Enterprises 
 Small and medium teams 
 Startups 
 Nonprofits 

 BY USE CASE App Modernization 
 DevSecOps 
 DevOps 
 CI/CD 
 View all use cases 

 BY INDUSTRY Healthcare 
 Financial services 
 Manufacturing 
 Government 
 View all industries 

 View all solutions 

 Resources EXPLORE BY TOPIC AI 
 Software Development 
 DevOps 
 Security 
 View all topics 

 EXPLORE BY TYPE Customer stories 
 Events & webinars 
 Ebooks & reports 
 Business insights 
 GitHub Skills 

 SUPPORT & SERVICES Documentation 
 Customer support 
 Community forum 
 Trust center 
 Partners 

 View all resources 

 Open Source COMMUNITY GitHub Sponsors Fund open source developers 

 PROGRAMS Security Lab 
 Maintainer Community 
 GitHub Stars 
 Archive Program 

 REPOSITORIES Topics 
 Trending 
 Collections 

 Enterprise ENTERPRISE SOLUTIONS Enterprise platform AI-powered developer platform 

 AVAILABLE ADD-ONS GitHub Advanced Security Enterprise-grade security features 
 Copilot for Business Enterprise-grade AI features 
 Premium Support Enterprise-grade 24/7 support 

 Pricing 
 Search / 

 Sign in 
 Sign up Appearance settings

 You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 
 You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 
 You switched accounts on another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 

 Dismiss alert 

 {{ message }}

 pgsty
 
 / 
 
 mc 

 Public 

 forked from minio/mc 

 Notifications
 You must be signed in to change notification settings 

 Fork
 7 

 Star
 42 

 Code 

 Issues 
 0 

 Pull requests 
 1 

 Actions 

 Projects 

 Security and quality 
 0 

 Insights 

 Additional navigation options 

 Code

 Issues

 Pull requests

 Actions

 Projects

 Security and quality

 Insights

 main 

 Branches Tags 

 Go to file 

 Code Open more actions menu 

 Latest commit

 History
 5,147 Commits 
 5,147 Commits 

 Folders and files
 Name Name Last commit message 
 Last commit date 
 
 .github 

 .github 

 buildscripts 

 buildscripts 

 cmd 

 cmd 

 docs 

 docs 

 pkg 

 pkg 

 testdata 

 testdata 

 .dockerignore 

 .dockerignore 

 .gitignore 

 .gitignore 

 .golangci.yml 

 .golangci.yml 

 .mailmap 

 .mailmap 

 AGENTS.md 

 AGENTS.md 

 CHANGELOG.md 

 CHANGELOG.md 

 CONFLICT.md 

 CONFLICT.md 

 CONTRIBUTING.md 

 CONTRIBUTING.md 

 CONTRIBUTORS.md 

 CONTRIBUTORS.md 

 CREDITS 

 CREDITS 

 Dockerfile 

 Dockerfile 

 Dockerfile.dev 

 Dockerfile.dev 

 Dockerfile.dockerignore 

 Dockerfile.dockerignore 

 Dockerfile.goreleaser 

 Dockerfile.goreleaser 

 Dockerfile.hotfix 

 Dockerfile.hotfix 

 LICENSE 

 LICENSE 

 Makefile 

 Makefile 

 NOTICE 

 NOTICE 

 README.md 

 README.md 

 README_ZH.md 

 README_ZH.md 

 code_of_conduct.md 

 code_of_conduct.md 

 contributors.sh 

 contributors.sh 

 functional-tests.sh 

 functional-tests.sh 

 go.mod 

 go.mod 

 go.sum 

 go.sum 

 main.go 

 main.go 

 staticcheck.conf 

 staticcheck.conf 

 View all files 

 Repository files navigation
 
 README 
 Code of conduct 
 Contributing 
 AGPL-3.0 license 
 
 More items 

 mcli

 The command-line for Silo — a MinIO Client fork maintained by PIGSTY 

 Website ·
 Documentation ·
 Download ·
 Release Notes ·
 Compatibility ·
 Security ·
 中文 

 Important
 pgsty/mc is an independent, community-maintained fork of the open-source MinIO Client , published by Pigsty . It is not affiliated with, endorsed by, or sponsored by MinIO, Inc. “MinIO” is used only to identify the upstream project and compatibility lineage.

 Current release

 20260916 
( 20260916000000.0.0 ) uses silo-pkg v3.14.1 and upstream minio-go 32e1f32cb176 .
See CHANGELOG.md for behavior changes and the
 component matrix for the
published Server/Console versions versus their newer main branches.

 Overview

 pgsty/mc maintains one downstream release line based on the final upstream MinIO Client commit, 77f82e18 . After the upstream repository was archived, this fork keeps the client built, patched, tested, and released through the same maintained supply chain as the Silo object storage server, while remaining a general-purpose client for filesystems and Amazon S3-compatible object stores.

 The fork follows one rule: the shipped artifact and its distribution channels are renamed; the tool you use is not. Standalone archives and Linux packages ship the binary as mcli , while retaining familiar command syntax, configuration and wire interfaces, with the documented correctness and security changes below. The complete, versioned list of differences is maintained in the compatibility notes .

 The official project portal is silo.pgsty.com . It brings the command reference, downloads, release and security notes, and project legal information together.

 Find the Right Resource

 Looking for 
 Canonical location 

 Project overview and navigation 
 Silo Website 

 mcli installation methods and downloads 
 Download & Install 

 Client and administration command reference 
 mcli reference · mcli admin reference 

 Release notes for this client 
 mcli release notes 

 Differences from upstream mc 
 mcli compatibility notes 

 Project news and security advisories 
 Blog · release and security notes 

 Versioned archives, packages, checksums, and source 
 GitHub Releases 

 Bug reports and feature discussions 
 GitHub Issues 

 Vulnerability reporting 
 Security Policy 

 License, attribution, and trademark information 
 LICENSE · NOTICE · CREDITS · portal license , attribution , and trademark pages 

 Related Projects

 Repository 
 Description 

 pgsty/silo 
 Silo object storage server — the S3-compatible MinIO fork this client accompanies 

 pgsty/mc 
 This repository — the Silo client, shipped as mcli with the mc command name 

 pgsty/silo-console 
 Admin web console for the Silo server 

 pgsty/silo-pkg 
 Shared Go packages maintained for the Silo forks 

 pgsty/pigsty 
 Pigsty — the PostgreSQL distribution that ships Silo as its object storage 

 Maintenance Policy

 The active main release line covers:

 build, toolchain, and dependency maintenance;

 applicable security fixes and sensitive-output hardening;

 focused fixes for reproducible defects and Silo interoperability;

 versioned archives, Linux packages, checksums, and multi-architecture images;

 release automation, documentation, and Pigsty integration.

 Changes are kept narrow and tested where practical. Maintenance is best effort; no response, remediation, or release schedule is guaranteed.

 Out of scope

 a separate client roadmap, new object-storage protocol, or speculative commands;

 broad rewrites or changes that materially expand the downstream delta;

 historical releases or multiple support branches;

 commercial support, SLAs, 24×7 coverage, or SUBNET services;

 guaranteed compatibility with every S3 implementation or future proprietary MinIO API.

 Governance

 The client is maintained together with the Silo server under one release process: DCO-signed commits, reviewed changes with CI validation (direct pushes to main are permitted; artifact publication separately requires successful workflows for the exact tagged commit), signed and immutable RELEASE.YYYY-MM-DDTHH-MM-SSZ tags with checksummed artifacts. Each release is announced with a release note on the portal; security advisories follow the security policy . Upstream copyright, license, and third-party notices are preserved in LICENSE , NOTICE , and CREDITS .

 Compatibility

 This fork aims to preserve:

 the github.com/minio/mc module path, ~/.mc configuration, and familiar command behavior;

 S3 Signature V2/V4 access and common MinIO/Silo administration workflows;

 RELEASE.YYYY-MM-DDTHH-MM-SSZ tags and the mc container entrypoint;

 the mc name for source builds, while standalone archives and Linux packages use mcli ; the Silo image provides both names.

 Connections to MinIO-operated services — the update feed, SUBNET, telemetry, and the pre-seeded play alias — are severed; affected commands remain for script compatibility and fail with a stable error. In particular, mc update is intentionally disabled: upgrade through the Pigsty package repository or GitHub Releases .

 Compatibility is a goal, not a guarantee. Server-specific administration commands may vary across versions. Pin releases, review the release notes and compatibility notes , keep a rollback path, and test the client against the target service before production use.

 Downloads and Release Artifacts

 Use Download & Install to choose a client installation method. GitHub Releases remains the source for versioned archives, packages, checksums, and source archives.

 Artifact 
 Location 

 Source 
 github.com/pgsty/mc 

 Standalone archives 
 GitHub Releases , providing mcli for Linux, macOS, and Windows on amd64 and arm64 

 Linux packages 
 RPM, DEB, and APK for x86_64 / aarch64 , also distributed through the Pigsty repository 

 Container image 
 pgsty/mc , multi-arch for linux/amd64 and linux/arm64 , with mc as the entrypoint 

 Silo bundle 
 pgsty/silo includes the client as mcli with an mc compatibility alias 

 Go and TLS compatibility

 Go 1.27 builds require macOS 13 or later. On macOS, builds targeting Go 1.27
replace Keychain trust with on-disk roots and Go's verifier when either
 SSL_CERT_FILE or SSL_CERT_DIR is set. Stale or incomplete CA paths can break
previously trusted connections; unset inherited values to restore Keychain
trust. Certificates in mcli's configured CAs directory are still added to the
selected root pool.

 S3, Admin, and alias TLS connections use Go's default key exchanges.
 GODEBUG=tlsmlkem=0 can temporarily accommodate an ML-KEM-intolerant endpoint;
it does not disable certificate verification or ML-DSA signatures.
 GODEBUG=tlssecpmlkem=0 is the narrower option for disabling only the SecP
hybrids while retaining X25519MLKEM768. The relevant
changes are described in the Go release notes .

 Quick Start

 Standalone archives and Linux packages expose the command as mcli :

 mcli alias set local http://127.0.0.1:9000 ACCESS_KEY SECRET_KEY
mcli mb local/demo
mcli cp README.md local/demo/
mcli ls local/demo 

 The container retains the familiar mc entrypoint:

 docker run --rm pgsty/mc:latest --version
docker run --rm pgsty/mc:latest alias ls 

 Warning
 For production, pin a release instead of latest , verify checksums, use TLS and least-privilege credentials, and test destructive commands against non-production data first.

 Build from source:

 git clone https://github.com/pgsty/mc.git
 cd mc
make build
./mc --version 

 Common Commands

 Use mcli --json ... or MC_JSON=true for machine-readable output. Once JSON
mode is selected, unknown options, invalid option values, and missing required
command arguments return a JSON error on stdout with exit status 1. Put
 --json before the command: a flag after a rejected option is not parsed.
Explicit --help and --version requests keep their human-readable output.
Command groups such as mcli --json admin user also display human-readable
help and exit 0 when invoked without a subcommand.

 Command 
 Purpose 

 alias 
 Configure credentials and endpoints 

 ls , tree , stat , du 
 Inspect buckets, objects, and local files 

 mb , rb 
 Create or remove buckets 

 cp , get , put , mv , rm 
 Transfer and manage objects 

 mirror , diff , find 
 Synchronize, compare, and search data 

 anonymous , share 
 Manage anonymous access and temporary URLs 

 version , retention , legalhold , ilm 
 Manage data-protection policies 

 replicate 
 Configure bucket replication 

 admin 
 Operate compatible MinIO/Silo servers 

 Run mcli --help , mcli <command> --help , or consult the client reference for the complete command set.

 Contributing

 Useful contributions include security and dependency updates, reproducible bug fixes, interoperability tests, release automation, packaging, and documentation.

 Issues and pull requests should include the affected client and server versions, reproduction steps, impact, expected behavior, tests, and compatibility notes. Discuss large changes in an issue first.

 There is no CLA: contributions are accepted inbound=outbound under the project license (AGPL-3.0-or-later) and contributors keep their copyright. Every commit must be signed off ( git commit -s ) per the Developer Certificate of Origin ; see CONTRIBUTING.md .

 Background

 The upstream minio/mc repository was archived after its final 2025 development line. Pigsty maintains this fork because Silo needs a reproducible companion client release channel rather than depending on an archived upstream project.

 The broader upstream changes, alternatives considered, and early fork maintenance record are documented below:

 Essay 
 Subject 

 MinIO Is Dead 
 Changes to the upstream project and distribution model 

 MinIO Is Dead, Who Takes Over? 
 Alternatives considered 

 MinIO Is Dead, Long Live MinIO 
 Establishing the server and client release pipeline 

 Two months into maintaining a MinIO fork 
 Initial security and maintenance work 

 License, Attribution, and Trademark

 The client source is distributed under the GNU Affero General Public License v3.0 or later . This fork derives from minio/mc : NOTICE retains the upstream product notice, CREDITS records licenses and notices for included third-party components, and the Git history records downstream modifications.

 MinIO is a trademark of MinIO, Inc. The name is used here only to identify the upstream project and compatibility lineage. Pigsty, Silo, pgsty/mc , and mcli are independent community efforts and are not affiliated with, endorsed by, or sponsored by MinIO, Inc.

 The portal separately publishes the project license summary , documentation attribution , and trademark notice .

 About 
 Silo object storage client (mcli), a community-maintained fork of the MinIO Client
 silo.pgsty.com 
 Topics 
 cli client minio object-storage s3 silo 
 Resources 
 Readme 
 AGPL-3.0 license 
 Code of conduct 
 Code of conduct 
 Contributing 
 Contributing 
 Activity 
 Custom properties 
 Stars 
 42 stars 
 Watchers 
 1 watching 
 Forks 
 7 forks 
 Report repository 

 Releases 

 Used by 

 Contributors 

 Languages 

 Footer

 © 2026 GitHub, Inc.

 Footer navigation

 Terms 

 Privacy 

 Security 

 Status 

 Community 

 Docs 

 Contact 

 Manage cookies

 Do not share my personal information

 You can’t perform that action at this time.
